GWEN IFILL: Good evening. I'm
Gwen Ifill. Judy Woodruff is
back with us tomorrow.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: a
historic visit. Pope Francis
meets the Castros and says mass
in Cuba. Ahead of his U.S.
visit, we look at the man
leading the Catholic Church.
GARRY WILLS, Author, "The Future
of the Catholic Church with Pope
Francis": The secret to him
is pretty open. He's a
Christian. He follows Jesus. He
talks like Jesus. Jesus talked
about
the poor. And that's all the
pope is saying. Start with the
poor.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead:
Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker
drops out of the Republican
race,
and religion steps in, as three
candidates jockey for an edge in
shifting polls.
Then: the story of one family of
Syrian refugees who made it to
the U.S., as Secretary of State
John Kerry opens
the door to more.
And America after Charleston: a
return to the city where nine
people were killed three
months ago, a PBS town hall on
healing, forgiveness and race --
all that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: A river of humanity
continued flowing into Europe
today, but it appeared
to be somewhat better regulated.
Thousands of people were being
taken in buses directly
from Croatia, across
Hungary and on to Austria.
Jonathan Miller of Independent
Television News reports from the
Croatian/Hungarian border.
JONATHAN MILLER: The Hungarian
military is busy building its
razor wire fence, just like
the one on its Serbian frontier.
They want to ensure that the
transit into Hungary is
totally controlled. From here,
they are just bussed straight
through Hungary to the Austrian
border.
Earlier this afternoon, I
visited a brand-new refugee
transit center that's been built
right
on the Serbian border about an
hour-and-a-half south. It's
quite impressive, 300 military
tents erected in just 24 hours
flat, capacity around 4,000, and
3,000 already there. They
get registered, then food,
medical attention, a shower and
shelter.
The U.N. Refugee Agency is
there, and they told me that 97
percent of these people come
from the world's top 10
refugee-referring countries.
They all know exactly where they
want to go and they know
exactly how to get there.
MAN: Well, many of them have
received, through different
media, social media, very
precise
information. So they have
been briefed where to go.
JONATHAN MILLER: The head of the
International Federation of the
Red Cross commended the
Croatians for bringing a
semblance of order to the chaos
of the past few days. He said
it was now the duty of the E.U.
leaders to find solutions to
this problem.
MAN: These are proud fathers and
mothers that used to take care
of their children and their
families. Some of them are
doctors and engineers and
teachers that were taking care
of their
own lives.
Here they are because of all the
circumstances we know and all
the push factors for which
we do not have a new solution in
this situation. And it is our
duty, as individuals, as
humanitarian
organizations, as simple
citizens of this world, to do
what is expected to us, what
is show our shared humanity.
JONATHAN MILLER: By tomorrow,
the people in that transit camp
will be up where I am now,
waiting for buses through
Hungary to Austria. And by
tomorrow night, they will be at
the
gates of Vienna. The U.N.
Refugee Agency says there is no
letup to this surge. In fact,
they are seeing ever more
people entering Croatia.
GWEN IFILL: Tomorrow, interior
ministers from the various
European Union states meet in
Brussels. There's no sign of
agreement on a proposal to
relocate 120,000 people now
in Greece, Italy or Hungary.
In Nigeria, more than 50 people
were killed and hundreds more
injured in a series of bombings
overnight. Attackers struck in
the northeastern city of
Maiduguri, the capital of Borno
state,
where Boko Haram is active. The
Islamic militant group has
recently lost territory to the
military.
The U.N.'s nuclear watchdog
reported significant progress
today in looking at Iran's past
nuclear
activities. The head of the
International Atomic Energy
Agency, Yukiya Amano, said he
now has environmental samples
from the Parchin military site.
But he also acknowledged that
renovations may obscure what
actually went on there.
The U.S. presidential race will
have one less candidate.
Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker
is quitting the Republican
nomination contest. He initially
led the polls in Iowa, but has
since fallen far back in the
pack. Fifteen Republicans are
still in the race.
Volkswagen stock plunged today
after the company admitted it
rigged U.S. emissions tests of
its diesel vehicles. V.W. shares
fell nearly 20 percent in
trading across Europe. Analysts
in Frankfurt said that
should come as no surprise.
OLIVER ROTH, Equities Trader
(through translator): There is a
giant scandal and it has arrived
as a shock even here. The
management of Volkswagen already
confessed to this, and now there
is
a threat of several billion
dollars worth of penalties, and
the shares plunged accordingly.
GWEN IFILL: Bloomberg reported
today the Justice Department has
opened a criminal investigation
of Volkswagen. And Germany said
it will investigate whether V.W.
falsified emissions results in
Europe.
Meanwhile, on Wall Street, the
Dow Jones industrial average
gained 125 points to close at
16510.
The Nasdaq rose one point,
and the S&P 500 added nine.
A former peanut company owner
faces 28 years in federal prison
for a deadly salmonella
outbreak. Stewart Parnell was
sentenced today in Albany,
Georgia. He'd been convicted of
knowingly shipping tainted
foods. The resulting salmonella
outbreak killed nine people and
sickened hundreds
in 2008 and 2009.
Firefighters in Northern
California made progress today
against some of the worst
wildfires
in the state's history. But over
the weekend, they raised the
number of homes destroyed
to 1,600 in two huge fires north
of San Francisco. South of the
city, a new blaze broke out over
the weekend. It destroyed 10
more homes and killed one
person.
A new study out today finds
Americans may be recycling a lot
less trash than anyone
thought. Researchers at Yale
University measured what's going
into landfills, and found the
average person tosses away five
pounds of trash a day. That's
more than twice what the
government had estimated.
The global growth of Internet
access is slowing for the third
year in a row. The U.N.
Broadband
Commission estimates the number
of people online will grow by
just over 8 percent this
year, down half-a-percent from
last year. Yet more than half
the world's population,
better than four billion
people, remain offline.
And some of television's biggest
stars are polishing their new
Emmys today, including
Tony Award winner Viola Davis,
who was named best actress in a
drama series for her work
on ABC's "How to Get Away With
Murder." She's the first black
woman to win that award.
VIOLA DAVIS, Actress: The only
thing that separates women of
color from anyone else
is opportunity.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
VIOLA DAVIS: You cannot win an
Emmy for roles that are simply
not there.
GWEN IFILL: HBO was the big
winner, with 14 statuettes, far
outpacing any over-the-air
network. But the awards telecast
itself was the least-watched
show ever.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Pope Francis in Cuba a day
before he arrives in the United
States; a debate over religion
stirs an already boiling pot;
it's Politics Monday, and much
more.
Huge crowds turned out to see
the pope in Cuba on the second
full day of his trip there,
a day that marked the
anniversary of when he decided,
as a teenager, to become a
priest.
He delivered a message about
the importance of change.
William Brangham
has this report.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Thousands of
Cubans welcomed Pope Francis
this morning as he celebrated
mass in the eastern Cuban city
of Holguin. Festive songs mixed
with traditional hymns
and with the pontiff's call
for tolerance and mercy.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through translator):
Jesus invites us to slowly
overcome
our preconceptions and our
resistance to change in others,
and even in ourselves.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Today's
remarks were in keeping with
Sunday's packed mass in Havana's
Revolution Square. There,
Francis urged Cubans to put
humankind ahead of ideology, a
subtle
jab at the country's
communist system.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): Service is never
ideological, for we do not serve
ideas. We serve people.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Cuban security
forces kept political dissidents
away, blocking them from
attending some events and
detaining several others. But
from all appearances, those who
did hear and see the first Latin
American pope were receptive.
GILBERTO YANEZ, Cuba (through
translator): Pope Francis had a
very deep message, a message
of hope, cordiality, of helping
each other, many beautiful and
appealing things.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hours later,
Francis met with Fidel Castro,
the retired founder of
Cuba's communist revolution.
Vatican officials described
their 40-minute meeting as --
quote
-- "informal and familial." The
pope held separate talks with
Castro's brother, the
current president, Raul Castro.
And late today, Francis traveled
to Santiago to visit the shrine
of Cuba's patron saint,
the Virgin of Charity. This
papal visit came as the U.S. and
Cuba have restored diplomatic
relations, thanks in part to
some behind-the-scenes brokering
by the Vatican.
And, tomorrow, the pope begins
his first-ever trip to the U.S.
He will fly first to Washington,
where he will meet with
President Obama on Wednesday and
address a joint meeting of
Congress
on Thursday.
GWEN IFILL: After the pope
leaves the nation's capital, he
continues to New York City and
Philadelphia. In those cities,
he is scheduled to meet with
some of the poorest and the most
powerless, delivering a message
of inclusiveness that has
snagged the attention of
Catholics
and non-Catholics alike.
Judy Woodruff brings us a
portrait of the church's first
Latin American pope.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On March 13,
2013, a new pope was elected.
Many were surprised to learn
he is an Argentine, Jorge Mario
Bergoglio, the first pope from
the Americas, first Jesuit,
and first non-European in more
than a millennium. His chosen
name, Francis, honors Saint
Francis
of Assisi and his special
concern for the poor.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): How I would like a
poor church for the poor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Soon, the new
pope's message of change
expanded to include others who
had
been marginalized: women,
the divorced, homosexuals.
When queried about gays, he sent
a clear sign of a new approach
by asking a provocative
question in return.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): If someone is gay
and seeks God and has goodwill,
who
am I to judge?
JUDY WOODRUFF: His statements on
women's roles also made
headlines.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): Women in the church
are more important than bishops
and priests. I think we are
missing a theological
explanation on this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But critics say
not much has actually changed in
terms of doctrine, for
example, that women can
never become priests.
MARIE DENNIS, Co-President, Pax
Christi International: I don't
think that there is yet any
signal
that the deep, rich, important
voice of women in the Catholic
Church is going to be heard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marie Dennis is
co-president of Pax Christi
International, the Catholic
peace and justice movement.
MARIE DENNIS: I am hopeful that
Pope Francis will bring a change
in the Catholic Church
in terms of its relationship
with the women in the church.
But I'm concerned that, so
far, that isn't too evident.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Francis
decentralized the hidebound
church bureaucracy known as the
Curia and
accused its members of being
careerist and of having
spiritual Alzheimer's.
He moved to clean up the
notorious Vatican Bank, firing
conservatives and promoting
newcomers
who share his vision. And he
looked to make lasting change
around the Vatican's most
shameful
and deeply troubling wound, the
child sex abuse scandal.
American archbishops were forced
to resign. A former church
ambassador to the Dominican
Republic was indicted. A new
tribunal
was created to investigate
top-ranked churchmen.
Still, the efforts were
criticized as too little, too
late.
GARRY WILLS, Author, "The Future
of the Catholic Church with Pope
Francis": I have liberal
friends who think he should have
come in and just changed the
whole proceeding for priest
abusers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Garry Wills is
the author of "The Future of the
Catholic Church with Pope
Francis."
GARRY WILLS: He's trying to do
something along that line, but
there's nothing that would
be adequate, except to fire all
the bishops, because they were
all complicit in the cover-up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But if changes in
policies have been slow to come,
the new pope's shift
in tone and unique
pastoral style has not.
Even so, little was known about
the unassuming 76-year-old who
had spent nearly his entire
life in Argentina. An intrigued
world wondered, who is Pope
Francis?
GARRY WILLS: The secret to him
is pretty open. He's a
Christian. He follows Jesus. He
talks
like Jesus. Jesus talked about
the poor. And that's all the
pope is saying. Start with
the poor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Professor Stephen
Schneck directs the Institute
for Policy Research & Catholic
Studies at Catholic University.
What do we need to know about
this man, in the beginning?
STEPHEN SCHNECK, Director,
Institute for Policy Research &
Catholic Studies, Catholic
University:
He's, you know, a
second-generation immigrant. And
I think the immigrant experience
of Italians
in Argentina was unique. And
Argentine history was one of the
shaping factors here.
It's a different history than
the United States, and, you
know, the forces of political
life
and culture are different
than the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Born in Buenos
Aires, the eldest son of an
Italian immigrant accountant,
the
pope-to-be graduated secondary
school with a chemical
technician's diploma and worked
in a lab, as a janitor sweeping
floors, and even as a nightclub
bouncer, before joining
the Jesuits.
Biographer Sergio Rubin:
SERGIO RUBIN, Pope Francis
Biographer (through translator):
In just six years, he went from
being a priest in a small
convent in a province to being
archbishop of Buenos Aires and
future
cardinal primate of Argentina.
His career has been meteoric.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In his Argentina,
he was known as the slum...
STEPHEN SCHNECK: As
the slum bishop, yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why?
STEPHEN SCHNECK: Well, because
that's where he -- that's where
the center of his gravity
was for his time as archbishop.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He quadrupled the
number of priests in the slums,
lived in a small apartment,
rode public transportation
and cooked his own meals.
GARRY WILLS: He said, the mark
of the shepherd is you have got
the smell of the sheep. You
have to go out and not only
teach, but listen to the people
of God. And he said, my ideal
of a pastor was a priest I knew
who knew who the name of every
dog in the slum.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In 2001,
Bergoglio was made a cardinal by
Pope John Paul II. After John
Paul's death four years later,
Cardinal Bergoglio was
reportedly a front-runner to
replace him,
until he asked his peers to vote
instead for Joseph Ratzinger,
who became Pope Benedict
XVI.
He wasn't putting
himself forward?
STEPHEN SCHNECK: He wasn't
putting himself forward, but
just the reverse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the years that
followed, Bergoglio remained
deliberately low-profile.
But once he became pope, Francis
signaled he was different, with
early gestures, such
as washing the feet of prison
inmates and those with
disabilities.
MAN: Coming to America. Pope
Francis will be heading to
Philadelphia.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The pope's first
ever visit to the U.S. will
include a rare trip to speak
to a joint session of Congress,
following an invitation from
House Speaker John Boehner.
The speaker released this video
in anticipation of the papal
visit:
REP. JOHN BOEHNER (R-OH),
Speaker of the House: There's a
lot of interest in what the pope
is saying, his outreach to the
poor, the fact that, you know,
people ought to be more
religious.
He's got some other positions
that are a bit more
controversial, but it's the
pope.
GARRY WILLS: What he will want
to do is heal. He's not a
bomb-thrower, and he will not
come
to insult anybody.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Francis has
not been shy about taking on
controversial political issues.
Most notably, he has spoken out
about climate change and the
negative impact of global
capitalism.
His recent encyclical
highlighted humanity's role in
global warming and he urged
leaders
to act.
POPE FRANCIS (through
translator): This home of ours
is being ruined. And that
damages
everyone, especially the poor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The encyclical
calls for radical changes to the
global economic system. So
does Canadian activist Naomi
Klein, whose bestseller "This
Changes Everything" blames
capitalism for ruining the
Earth, and led her to joining
the pope's team of advisers.
NAOMI KLEIN, Activist: And I
think that the encyclical is
just kind of a truth bomb. Like,
it's just -- it just has the
force of coming from a place
that isn't about appeasing
public
opinion, but is just about
trying to tell powerful truths.
And when people, when powerful
people start telling powerful
truths, it's contagious.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is his
identification with the poor
that most differentiates Pope
Francis.
His remarks on inequality and
the excesses of modern
capitalism have been forceful,
and
he has attacked supply-side
economics, policies that call
for tax cuts for the rich, as a
near-sacrilegious heresy.
STEPHEN SCHNECK: For him, these
are primarily moral issues. He
is, in fact, speaking as
a pastor when he is reminding us
of the moral cost of our
economy, of the profound moral
dimension of caring
for creation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Most recently,
Francis called upon Catholic
parishes and religious
communities
to take in refugees who are
pouring out of the Middle East.
Who is Pope Francis? To a
great extent, he remains an
image we create for ourselves.
STEPHEN SCHNECK: Pope Francis is
the conscience for this age of
the world.
NAOMI KLEIN: He is
a man in a hurry.
MARIE DENNIS: Pope Francis
is a breath of fresh air.
GARRY WILLS: I think of him as
kind of the Joan Rivers: Can we
talk?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Whatever the pope
has to say during this visit to
the United States, one
thing seems certain: He is
already a transformative figure.
And, finally, it's way too early
to ask this question. What's his
legacy likely to be?
STEPHEN SCHNECK: What he has
done, I think, is he has
transformed the Catholic
attitude
towards the world. He's calling
us to the margins and to the
marginalized. And that
is, of course, the oldest
Christian message.
GWEN IFILL: You can follow all
our coverage of the pope's U.S.
visit online at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
As we reported just a few
minutes ago, Wisconsin Governor
Scott Walker has just decided to
drop out of the Republican
nominating race. He spoke to
supporters in Madison.
Here's what he had to
say just moments ago:
GOV. SCOTT WALKER (R-WI), Former
Presidential Candidate: I was
sitting at church yesterday.
The pastor's words reminded me
that the Bible is full of
stories about people who are
called
to be leaders in unusual ways.
Today, I believe that I am being
called to lead by helping to
clear the field in this
race, so that a positive
conservative message can rise to
the top of the field. With this
in mind, I will suspend
my campaign immediately.
I encourage other Republican
presidential candidates to
consider doing the same, so
that the voters can focus on a
limited number of candidates who
can offer a positive
conservative
alternative to the current
front-runner. This is
fundamentally important to the
future of
the party and, more importantly,
to the future of our country.
GWEN IFILL: Walker's decision
was the headline of the day, but
not the tum -- sum total,
that is, of a weekend of
politics, which also strayed
onto the third rail of religion.
Joining me for Politics Monday,
Susan Page of USA Today and Amy
Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
Let's start by talking
about Scott Walker.
Did he lose support, lose money,
or was it the tail chasing the
elephant, as it were?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: As it were. It's
probably a combination of both.
You know, Scott Walker was a
candidate who looked so perfect
on paper. And I'm guilty
of saying this, too, that he
looked like the ideal candidate
for the Republican Party.
But when it came to being an
actual candidate, not a paper,
but a real-live candidate, he
didn't do a particularly
good job of it.
And part of it was his message,
which was I am the consistent
conservative, I did something
in a blue state that no other
Republican governor has been
able to do...
GWEN IFILL: Which is to
knock down the unions.
AMY WALTER: Which is to knock
down the unions. Elect me
because I can be both an
electable
candidate, but a
conservative candidate.
That message got muddled
throughout the campaign when he
was chasing -- and talk about
chasing
the tail -- mostly, what he
seemed to be chasing was a party
or a message that kept moving
to the right, and he was
moving along with it.
GWEN IFILL: So, if this is a
party of outsiders, does that
mean that, if you are a governor
or someone who actually comes
from inside the process, the
system, that you are at a
disadvantage?
SUSAN PAGE, Washington Bureau
Chief, USA Today: Well, it is
sort of amazing that in the
latest
poll, we have got -- Scott
Walker was at less than one-half
of 1 percent, this guy who has
won three gubernatorial
elections in Wisconsin, and --
which is significant, to be the
only
person in American history, the
only governor to survive a
recall election -- and at the
top of the field we have three
people who have never won an
office, among them, Donald
Trump, Ben Carson
and Carly Fiorina.
Now, that might say this is the
year of the outsider. We have
seen that before. But I
think that we -- I think that it
continues to be the likelihood
that we -- that the Republican
Party will nominate someone
who's held office before.
And so, in this way, Scott
Walker's withdrawal is good news
for people like Jeb Bush and
Marco Rubio...
GWEN IFILL: That was my next
question. Who benefits?
SUSAN PAGE: ... and John Kasich,
who have maybe just a little bit
more territory now
to claim that part of
the party's support.
GWEN IFILL: So we can assume
that, somewhere, in some
basement of campaign
headquarters,
people are dialing
for his support?
AMY WALTER: Well, and some of
them are already moving over.
We started to hear talk about
supporters, donors already
starting to give money to other
candidates. The candidate that
seems to benefit most from them,
maybe somebody like Marco
Rubio, who is already picking up
some of his support and staff in
some of these early states.
SUSAN PAGE: But I don't think
Scott Walker is a victim of
Donald Trump, which I think
some people are trying to -- he
was a victim of his own failure
to campaign effectively.
He had a great speech in January
in Iowa that really launched
him. He was leading in Iowa.
But then he became a very
inconsistent campaigner. He has
flip-flopped on birthright
citizenship.
He seemed uncertain on
addressing national security
issues. This was a failure of
this
candidate to deliver
on his promise.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about
another candidate who a lot of
supporters seem to think is
showing
promise, but had an interesting
-- I guess depending on how you
look at it -- it looked
like a stumble this weekend.
And that's Dr. Ben Carson, who
was on "Meet the Press" and over
the weekend he was asked
about people who should
be running for president.
Actually, let's just play what
he said, so that we can make our
own judgment about what
he meant.
CHUCK TODD, Moderator, "Meet the
Press": Should a president's
faith matter? Should your faith
matter to voters?
BEN CARSON (R), Presidential
Candidate: Well, I guess it
depends on what that faith is.
If it's inconsistent with the
values and principles of
America, then of course it
should matter.
But if it fits within the realm
of America and consistent with
the Constitution, no problem.
CHUCK TODD: So, do you believe
that Islam is consistent with
the constitution?
BEN CARSON: No, I don't. I do
not. I wouldn't advocate that we
put a Muslim in charge of
this nation. I absolutely
wouldn't agree with that.
GWEN IFILL: Now, this was an
interesting exchange, because
Chuck Todd basically threw out
an
open-ended question, and then he
opened the door and drove the
truck through, the question
about whether having a Muslim as
president is consistent with the
Constitution, which
doesn't have a religious test.
AMY WALTER: Correct.
But I think we're now sort of
splicing and dicing maybe this a
little bit too much, just
in that I think the fundamental
thing, the takeaway, at least
for me, was that this was
a candidate that looked like he
was saying that: I don't want to
see a Muslim elected
president, whether -- as opposed
to getting into a debate about
whether -- the constitutionality
of whether a Muslim
could be president.
In fact, you're hearing a lot of
Republicans saying he didn't
advocate that people couldn't
elect one. He just
doesn't want to see one.
But I think what a lot of voters
are going to see out there --
and if he is the nominee,
this, I think, would be a very
big problem for the Republican
Party -- is a party, Republican
Party that seems intent on
dismissing or looking like
they're closing down ranks,
instead of
opening up their base to a
bigger, broader electorate.
If you look at what Republicans
talked about after the 2012
elections, the number takeaway
from the RNC was, we are a party
that is too insular, we are too
white, we are too old,
we need to expand our base, we
need to bring different people
in.
That's not a message
that brings people in.
GWEN IFILL: And yet, and yet, if
you're just going by what it is
that the Republican polling
universe believes, this is
actually a popular position that
he's taking.
So, you wonder sometimes. And
he's continued to defend it
after a first statement. You
wonder whether he's -- doubling
down is the new Republican
political tactic.
SUSAN PAGE: Well, I think that
Donald Trump that has
demonstrated doubling down can
serve
you well. It makes you look
tough. You never have to
apologize.
And in a Republican primary, I'm
not sure this is a big problem
for Dr. Ben Carson,
because a lot of Republicans
would agree that they wouldn't
be comfortable with a Muslim
as president. But when you're
trying to run for president of
this great diverse nation
-- not that there are so many
Muslim voters, although there
are a couple million -- it's
that it seems intolerant to say
that you wouldn't elect a Muslim
president.
There was a time when we
wouldn't have elected a black
president. And we did. Or we
wouldn't
have elected a Catholic
president. And we did. And so
who is to say that there
wouldn't
come a time when we would
elect a Muslim president?
So I think there are a lot of
people, Americans who are
non-Muslims, who would say, this
is
not the -- this is not what I
think of when I think of the
country of America.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about the
two women in the race briefly
here. We have Carly Fiorina,
who actually seems
to be surging a bit.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Of course, these
polls, after every debate,
somebody else surges, depending
on what the headline
said the next day.
But how is she trying to
capitalize on this moment?
AMY WALTER: Well, the first
question is, can she capitalize
by getting money and by getting
infrastructure? Those are two
things that she hasn't had.
So she's got to like do this on
the fly, put together a campaign
team. She has a very skeletal
staff. This is going to be
important for her. And the
second is taking the incoming
flak
for her record as the CEO of
H.P. It was very, very rocky.
She talked a lot about what some
of her successes were, but, at
the end of the day, she was
fired. The company didn't
do particularly well
during her tenure there.
That is going to be something
that is a serious line of attack
that she's got to figure out
a better answer for.
SUSAN PAGE: There's a lot of
things about our politics that
don't make sense, but one
thing that actually happens in a
presidential election is you get
submitted to scrutiny.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
SUSAN PAGE: And you either
stand up to it or you don't.
And Scott Walker got submitted
to some scrutiny, and he didn't
stand up to it. And now Carly
Fiorina is now from the bottom
of the pack into the top tier,
and she is going to have
a chance to demonstrate whether
she can stand up to the
scrutiny.
GWEN IFILL: These are
not new arguments.
SUSAN PAGE: No. No.
GWEN IFILL: This was litigated
against her when she ran for the
California Senate.
SUSAN PAGE: And she didn't do so
well last time. But she's done
better this time in addressing
the questions about her tenure
as head of H.P. than she did
then.
But this is different. The
stakes are pretty -- the stakes
are very high and the scrutiny
is very tough.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk about
Hillary Clinton. She was on --
she has got a whole new media
strategy.
Now she did a Sunday talk show.
She did late night. She's done
all kinds of -- a day rolling
out kind of a new media
strategy, trying to say, I
guess, reintroduce,
re-re-reintroduce
herself.
Let's hear what she had to
yesterday on "Face the Nation"
to our friend John Dickerson.
JOHN DICKERSON, Host, "Face the
Nation": Give us three words
that is the real Hillary
Clinton.
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN DICKERSON: Just three.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate: Just
three? I can't possibly do that.
I mean, look, I am a real
person, with all the pluses and
minuses that go along with
being that.
GWEN IFILL: OK, it's been 20
years that she's been in the
public eye. Why are we having
this conversation? Why is she
having this conversation?
AMY WALTER: This has been the
debate that the Clinton campaign
has had with folks like
us in the media from the very
beginning. She's the most famous
person nobody really knows.
This is our chance to
go and reintroduce her.
But if you're going to
reintroduce one of the most
famous people in the world, it
has
to look genuine. So I think the
challenge for her is that she's
not the best orator.
She is not somebody that's going
to go up and rev up a crowd in
the way some of these
other candidates do.
But she's very good at other
things. And it's focusing on
those things. I thought she did
very well on "Face the Nation"
yesterday. She's very good in
that context, especially
when it's policy-heavy. When it
comes to some of the other parts
of campaigning, not so
good.
SUSAN PAGE: Well, she was pretty
good on "Jimmy Fallon," though.
AMY WALTER: Oh, that's...
(CROSSTALK)
SUSAN PAGE: Although, if you
have to say, "I'm a real
person," as though that should
be news to people, possibly a
sign of danger as a candidate.
The question is, do you have a
second chance to make a first
impression? Impressions of
her pretty well-set, hard to
change. Maybe not impossible.
GWEN IFILL: I have to ask one
more thing. In your column this
week, you made a reference
to Death Cab For Cutie.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: What were
you talking about?
AMY WALTER: Oh, my gosh, you
didn't know about them? They're
a great indie band. They're
great.
(CROSSTALK)
GWEN IFILL: And? And the
connection to politics is?
AMY WALTER: That they have a
song called "The Sound of
Settling," which in my mind goes
to the challenge for Jeb Bush
and Hillary Clinton, in that
they're not the most exciting
candidates, but ultimately you
may just find that voters are
settling for them.
GWEN IFILL: Does that reasoning
ring true you, Susan?
SUSAN PAGE: Well, I do think we
have a sorting out process, and
sometimes the candidates
that we have counted out early
on ended up -- end up winning
the election. And we should
never forget that.
GWEN IFILL: There is nothing
wrong with a -- little indie
band references in our Politics
Monday.
AMY WALTER: No.
GWEN IFILL: Amy
Walter, Susan Page...
AMY WALTER: Listen to
them. They're good.
GWEN IFILL: You insist that
I have to listen to them?
AMY WALTER: No.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: I will
see what I can do.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Thank
you both very much.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
what happens when Syrians find
refuge; we follow one family
as they settle in to their new
life in the U.S.; and we preview
tonight's PBS special,
"America After Charleston."
You joined us a year ago in
Ferguson. And what would you say
has changed since then,
if anything?
UMI SELAH, Dream Defenders:
Nothing. Absolutely nothing has
changed since a year ago. But
what we have learned in the past
year is not that Black Lives
Matter, but black deaths
matter.
GWEN IFILL: But, first, Greece's
former prime minister returned
to power this evening after
his snap election
gamble paid off.
But as special correspondent
Malcolm Brabant reports from
Athens, many in the
cash-strapped
country are more resigned
than enthusiastic.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The scale of
Alexis Tsipras' victory came as
a surprise. Before the election,
opinion polls had suggested a
much tighter race between the
conservative New Democracy
opposition and Tsipras'
left-wing Syriza Party.
In the end, he had a clear lead
over New Democracy. And although
he didn't win an outright
majority,
he secured enough parliamentary
seats to form a coalition
government with his previous
partner,
the right-wing Independent
Greeks, ANEL.
ALEXIS TSIPRAS, Greek Prime
Minister (through translator):
We fought a tough and difficult
battle. I feel vindicated today,
because the Greek people gave us
a clear mandate to continue
fighting inside and outside the
country and boost our people's
pride.
MALCOLM BRABANT: A breakaway
faction of his Syriza Party that
opposed the latest bailout
deal was wiped out in the
election, and so his authority
has been reasserted.
Reaction was muted. Normally,
after a Greek election, the
streets are full of people
celebrating.
But the country is weary after
five years of never-ending
crisis. Despite his policy
flip-flops, some Syriza
supporters still regard Tsipras
as the golden boy of the left.
MAN (through translator): I am
very happy. I live for my
children and grandchildren.
Tsipras is our hope. He is all
we can hope for. Otherwise, we
are lost.
WOMAN (through translator): This
is the third time that I am
voting for Syriza and Alexis
Tsipras. I am very proud,
and I feel very happy.
MAN: I am not happy, but I was
expecting it. I believed that
the Greeks would vote for
New Democracy. But,
unfortunately for me, and I
think for my country, they kept
on giving
their support to Syriza.
MALCOLM BRABANT: The most
significant figure in this
election was the 44 percent of
people
who decided not to vote. The low
turnout was the worst in Greek
electoral history and an
indication that people are
disillusioned with politics and
politicians.
Alexis Tsipras only succeeded
because he convinced his core
supporters to go out and vote.
His
opponents didn't. The sense of
hope that Tsipras engendered
earlier in the year has now
vanished.
People are bracing themselves
for still more austerity. And
the latest tax bills are due
to arrive in the mail any day.
International investors are
tapping into the expertise of
political analyst Nick
Malkoutzis
to determine whether Greece is
worth the risk, now that Tsipras
has the potential to be prime
minister for the next four
years. Today, in Athens, the
skies roared with thunder. The
big question on everyone's lips
is, after Tsipras' first stormy
term, will there now
be calm?
NICK MALKOUTZIS, Deputy Editor,
Kathimerini: Everyone is asking
the question really, is
he going to deliver, because
he's been such of an enigma over
the past few months? I think
that the two things you can
point to that would perhaps make
you think he can is that
he's emerged from these
elections politically
strengthened. It's clear
certainly to Greece's
lenders that he's the
only player in town.
And the second is that he
returns with the same
government, so there isn't a
question
of people getting used to their
portfolios and learning what
they have to do.
MALCOLM BRABANT: Philip
Ammerman, a Greek American
financial adviser, is working
with
conglomerates that want to
purchase some of Greece's
nationalized assets that are
being
privatized as part of the
restructuring program. He has
grave doubts about Tsipras
ability
to force through
unpopular austerity.
PHILIP AMMERMAN, Financial
Adviser: He has a mandate but he
only has a majority of five
votes in the Greek Parliament.
And, previously, the Syriza
Party, if you will recall, a
month
ago, a month-and-a-half ago,
fell apart precisely because of
implementing the Troika's
program.
Now they have voted it. They
have voted for the third rescue
package, but they have not
voted through the implementing
arrangements. So the proof of
the pudding is going to be,
how many Syriza and ANEL M.P.s
stay with the governing
coalition when it comes time to
implement these structural
adjustment programs that have to
be done. I think it's going to
be very difficult for him to
last beyond 12 months,
personally.
MALCOLM BRABANT: But Tsipras'
first main task has nothing to
do with the economy.
An emergency E.U. summit on the
refugee crisis requires his
participation later this week.
Hard-line nations will want to
know whether Tsipras will tear
down the fence on the Turkish
border which is forcing people
to take the perilous sea route
via the Greek islands.
For the "PBS NewsHour," this
is Malcolm Brabant in Athens.
GWEN IFILL: The Obama
administration's plans to settle
as many as 10,000 Syrian
refugees
in the U.S. within a year
is coming under fire.
In a statement released Sunday,
Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck
Grassley and House Judiciary
Chairman Bob Goodlatte, both
Republicans, said the Islamic
State group will use the
refugee crisis to try to enter
the United States and that the
administration doesn't
have a concrete and foolproof
plan to ensure that terrorists
won't be able to enter the
country.
So far, fewer than 2,000
refugees have settled here.
Tonight, the story of one
family that recently arrived.
Special correspondent
Marcia Biggs reports.
MARCIA BIGGS: It's a theme that
played out all over America this
month, children getting
ready for their first days of
school. But for this family,
it's an entirely new kind
of fresh start.
Mohamed and Amira Darbi and
their three children arrived
only two months ago, five of the
roughly
1,700 Syrian refugees that the
United States has taken in since
2011.
MOHAMED DARBI, Refugee (through
translator): I have been in the
U.S. for 50 days now, and
I like it.
MARCIA BIGGS: "And before
the 50 days?" I asked.
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): I didn't know what
America meant.
MARCIA BIGGS: Mohamed and Amira
are from Homs, the birthplace of
the Syrian revolution. He
was a carpenter and she a
high school physics teacher.
All three children were small in
2011, when the revolution began
and Bashar al-Assad issued
a brutal crackdown
on their town.
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): When they would
raid the homes, we were afraid
for our
children, our women. We were
afraid they would kidnap one of
us. That's when the fear
started.
MARCIA BIGGS: What did
you tell your children?
AMIRA DARBI, Refugee (through
translator): The kids were very
scared. They would wake
up in the middle of the night
and start crying. And I was
worried they would develop some
sort of psychological problem.
The main reason I left was for
my kids.
MARCIA BIGGS: It was 2012, when
the family narrowly missed the
missiles that flattened
their neighborhood, that they
finally fled. They waited for
weeks near the border to be
able to make the dangerous
crossing into Jordan, running
for their lives.
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): I grabbed my
daughter and I ran through the
checkpoint.
My wife grabbed our other
daughter, and we crossed even
though we knew they might shoot
us. It was terrifying.
AMIRA DARBI (through
translator): This day was the
most difficult of my life. I
still
remember it. And, sometimes, I
still have nightmares about
crossing that checkpoint.
MARCIA BIGGS: But once in
Jordan, the family struggled, at
first living with 200 families
in a camp made only for five,
without work, without legal
documentation and bearing the
stigma of being a refugee. The
proud protector of his family,
Mohamed had to think quickly
on his feet.
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): I was afraid that,
if anything should happen, they
would send me back to Syria. So
I decided to register with the
UNHCR to protect myself
and my children. I didn't waste
any time. I was one of the first
people who registered
as a Syrian refugee. And on
that basis, they chose us.
MARCIA BIGGS: Two-and-a-half
years later, they arrived here
in New Jersey, where they
have been living with the help
of the U.S. government and
Church World Service, one of
nine NGOs that helps
with refugee settlement.
Tell me how you prepare for the
arrival of these families.
MAHMOUD MAHMOUD, Church World
Service: Well, we find the
apartment. We pay for the
security
deposit and first month's rent.
We move furniture into the
apartment, do the apartment
setup,
buy groceries, put it into the
refrigerator so that they have
food to eat. And we actually
go ourselves to pick up the
families from the airport for
the first time, and we're
the first faces that
they see upon arrival.
MARCIA BIGGS: So, what kind of
government assistance do they
receive and for how long?
MAHMOUD MAHMOUD: The social
services assist them with
Medicaid, so that they have
health
care if they need to go to the
doctor for any reason up until
eight months. They receive
food stamps and they receive
a bit of cash assistance.
MARCIA BIGGS: What
is required of them?
MAHMOUD MAHMOUD: They must
attend ESL courses for at least
35 hours a week and they must
show that they're trying to
find jobs themselves as well.
MARCIA BIGGS: None of the family
speaks English. Mohamed and
Amira are enrolled in language
classes. And CWS is trying
to Mohamed find a job.
I'm sure it's not been an easy
transition. It's a very
different life here. What's been
the most difficult part?
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): When I first
arrived, I immediately felt that
I want
to go back. The people are not
my people. I don't know how to
speak, I don't know how
to walk, I don't know how to do
anything. It was strange. I was
lost. My children, how
am I going to register them?
How am I going to work?
I felt I wanted to go back, I
don't want to stay here. But
then everything falls into
place and people blend in.
AMIRA DARBI (through
translator): The language is
difficult. We're suffering with
language,
but, God willing, we will learn
and we will stand on our own two
feet.
MARCIA BIGGS: What's
been the best part?
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): The best part about
it for me is that I can move
around
freely. There's no sense of
imprisonment. I take the kids
around.
The kids were stripped away from
going to parks, to rivers, to
the malls, to go shopping.
And now they're back to school
and life came back to them. For
me, that was the best thing,
when I saw that their future
came back to them. To me, that's
worth the entire world.
MARCIA BIGGS: What's touched you
the most about these Syrian
families?
MAHMOUD MAHMOUD: I believe it's
their drive to continue despite
what they have been through.
Their work ethic is really
tremendous. They want to be
here. They want to be productive
and active individuals
in the community.
MARCIA BIGGS: All the children
are enrolled in school now,
5-year-old Shakad (ph) for
the first time, 12-year-old
Hajar (ph) and 13-year-old
Nabiha (ph) with the help of an
interpreter. Hajar and Nabiha
say their favorite part about
being in the U.S. is finally
feeling
like they belong.
What is the best thing about
school today? Math. You like
math? Science? And what do
you want to be when you grow up?
GIRL: A doctor.
MARCIA BIGGS: You want to be a
doctor? You want to be an
engineer?
GIRL (through translator): In
Jordan, they used to tell us,
you're Syrian. Go away from
us. Don't talk to us. And they
separated the Jordanians and
Syrians at school. Why did
that have to be? Aren't we all
human beings? Aren't we all one?
MARCIA BIGGS: What is
school like for you here?
GIRL (through translator): You
feel like you are the same, not
like in Jordan. We're all
one and the same at school. For
example, the teacher doesn't get
upset with you because
you're Syrian. She doesn't shout
at you bays you're Syrian. She
treats us like everyone
else in class.
MARCIA BIGGS: How did it feel to
put your kids on the school bus
for the first day of
school here in the
United States?
MOHAMED DARBI (through
translator): Of course, when I
see my children going to school,
and
they're going to build their
future, I'm going to be the
happiest.
For me, I see no future. I'm 42
years old. I will barely make a
living and provide for
them a decent life. The future
is theirs. When they came back
from school yesterday,
I asked them, "How was your
day?" They said: "We were really
happy. We had such a fun day."
For me, that's beautiful.
MARCIA BIGGS: For the "PBS
NewsHour," I'm Marcia Biggs in
Jersey City, New Jersey.
GWEN IFILL: Now we return to the
root of what's forced millions
from their homes: the conflict
in Syria.
With multiple factions and
common enemies in play, the war
has become even more
complicated,
as Russia now steps up its
support for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad by moving
additional
military men and weaponry into
Syria and expanding its base
there.
Meanwhile, Moscow is calling for
greater coordination with the
U.S. to fight a common enemy:
the
Islamic State group.
Joining me now to help us sort
through some of this latest
tangle is chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret Warner.
So, Margaret, where does this
proposal or this talk about
having joint U.S.-Russia talks
stand tonight?
MARGARET WARNER: Well, Gwen,
even though there's been no
official announcement, in fact,
you
could say the
military-to-military talks have
ray begun.
Last Friday, Secretary of
Defense Ash Carter had a
conversation 50 minutes with his
counterpart,
and this had been 18 months in
which the Obama administration
had cut off all contacts after
Russia seized Ukraine or
certainly seized Crimea.
So the question they're trying
to figure out, OK, publicly,
they're saying, the U.S. is
saying, well, these are
deconfliction talks. Make sure
that our planes don't interfere
with each other and we
don't have an accident.
That is part of it. But really
what they want to know is, what
is Assad's intention here?
And is it to prop up the Assad
government? I'm sorry --
Russian's intentions are to prop
up the Assad government, or in
fact is it just to fight ISIS,
which is what Kerry had
been told by Lavrov?
GWEN IFILL: Now, is this just
old Cold War suspension, or do
we have reason to be worried
that this is more than
what Russia says it is?
MARGARET WARNER: Oh, well,
that's exactly -- and the
administration will admit this
-- they do not want to be gamed,
as several said to me, the way
they were in Ukraine,
where President Putin and
Foreign Minister Lavrov, Sergei
Lavrov, consistently, in the
U.S. view, lied, not only to
them on the phone, face to face,
but lied to the world about
whether they were in Ukraine and
what they were doing in Ukraine.
And so this time, they didn't
want to be sucked into that.
They also want to make sure, you
know, if his intention is to
help Assad fight ISIS and they
adopt Assad's view, which is
everybody opposed to me is a
terrorist, well, the U.S.
doesn't want to get sucked into
that
kind of endeavor or that
kind of partnership.
GWEN IFILL: I can understand
that, but I just don't see --
how do face-to-face talks mean
that they will tell the truth or
that they will get the truth?
MARGARET WARNER: Excellent
point, Gwen, because Kerry has
already had three conversations
with Lavrov.
Based on what happened in
Ukraine, there is no guarantee
they will be told the truth.
And the interventions with
Lavrov on the phone have, so
far, not slowed the Russian
advance
of weapons and materiel and
men into Syria at all.
GWEN IFILL: Is there any worry
or concern that part of the deal
if Lavrov were to talk
to Kerry or Putin would
talk to president...
MARGARET WARNER: Again, which
might happen next week.
GWEN IFILL: Which might
happen next week in New York.
Is there any concern that the
tradeoff might be keeping Assad
in power?
MARGARET WARNER: Oh, yes.
And, in fact, in London just
this weekend, Secretary Kerry
said, well, essentially, that
Assad could be part of the
transition. Now, when you ask
why the turnaround,
administration
officials tell me there is no
turnaround. If you were at the
Geneva Syria peace talks
18 months ago, as I was, or you
read the clips, which I read
again today, Kerry's tone was
absolutely hard and fast. There
is no role for President Assad
even in this transition
phase.
Yesterday or this weekend, Kerry
said, well, we're not obdurate
about that as to time and
place.
GWEN IFILL: And why the change?
So there was a change, but why?
MARGARET WARNER: Oh, there's
definitely a change, because --
for two reasons.
One, there is an urgency to get
something going on the political
process. And that's
what Kerry is hoping, is that
this invitation to talk about
military-to-military will open
up an opportunity and that we
could cooperate with the
Russians on that, as we did on
Iran.
So, one, it's the E.U. The
European migrant crisis is
driving it, and, two, a growing
concern that in fact Assad and
everybody other than ISIS is
losing control completely of
Northern Syria, and that the
thing is just getting completely
out of hand.
GWEN IFILL: For the record, what
is it that Russia says it is
actually -- they say that
they're actually doing?
MARGARET WARNER: They say they
are there -- they have always
had a base in Syria. This is not
new. And they...
GWEN IFILL: Advisers,
not military.
MARGARET WARNER: Well...
GWEN IFILL: Well, who knows.
MARGARET WARNER: I don't know. I
don't know the details of that.
But this is totally different.
The base is being expanded.
There were reports by Reuters,
which no one would confirm to
me, that Russia is already
flying surveillance drones over
Syria. So what they want to make
sure doesn't happen is that
essentially Assad gets this
tremendous help from the
Russians and turns around and
uses it against his own
citizens,
barrel-bombing them,
as Assad is doing now.
GWEN IFILL: It sounds almost --
and tell me if this is too
simplistic -- like a pool game,
that, on one hand, the migrant
crisis is pushing them toward
Russia, but they're afraid that
Russia may have a bank shot
which takes them back toward
Assad. Does that make any sense?
MARGARET WARNER: I couldn't have
said it better. I couldn't have
said it better. That's exactly
it.
And, as you say, the track
record is such that there's no
reason for President Obama
to believe President
Putin anyway.
GWEN IFILL: So, who holds the
cue, just following through on
that?
MARGARET WARNER: I don't know.
Probably Putin, as he manages to
do.
Obviously, he's trying to get
out of the deep freeze he's been
in with the rest of the world
over Ukraine. And the U.S.
doesn't really want to be an
enabler to that. At the same
time, they want to learn more
about the military operations.
So, the administration, it
strikes me, is a little bit
caught. And then you also always
have Secretary Kerry, who,
having completed the Iran deal,
some people say may be just
looking for another great
negotiation he can get going.
GWEN IFILL: Well, there's plenty
out there left to be done, but
one last thing.
So, next week is the United
Nations General Assembly. This
is where any meeting between
the president and President
Putin would likely occur.
MARGARET WARNER: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: Where does that
stand, an actual face-to-face of
leaders?
MARGARET WARNER: There is still
-- there is debate and
discussion in the White House
over
this, I'm told.
It is very much in the air.
Kerry and Lavrov will obviously
talk, probably extensively
and several times, in a
bilateral, just the two of them.
So, I wouldn't be a bit
surprised
if Presidents Obama and
Putin were to meet.
GWEN IFILL: And there will be a
pool cue in the corner waiting.
(CROSSTALK)
MARGARET WARNER: Yes.
GWEN IFILL: ... fix it up.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Margaret Warner,
thank you very much.
MARGARET WARNER: Thanks, Gwen.
GWEN IFILL: Before we go
tonight: This weekend, I
traveled to Charleston, South
Carolina,
to the Circular Congregational
Church for a town hall meeting
on race.
We were just blocks away from
Emanuel AME Church, where nine
black worshipers attending
Bible study were gunned down in
June. We spoke with local
residents and national experts
and activists about Greece,
recovery, the Confederate Flag,
and whether black lives
matter.
In a "PBS NewsHour"/Marist poll
conducted last week before the
town hall, we found widespread
agreement about the scope of the
problem; 60 percent of whites
and 56 percent of blacks
say race relations have gotten
worse in the past year. But when
we asked if African-Americans
and whites have the same job
opportunities, for example, 76
percent of black respondents
said, no, they don't, while 52
percent of whites said, yes,
they do.
And when we asked whether the
police treat blacks and whites
equally, 8 percent of
African-Americans
said yes, compared to
42 percent of whites.
At the town hall, I asked Umi
Selah, who founded a called the
Dream Defenders after Trayvon
Martin was killed in Florida in
2012, whether anything has
changed.
UMI SELAH, Dream Defenders: What
we have learned in the past year
is not that black lives matter,
but black deaths matter. That's
the only time people wake up.
That's the only time people
react.
But, in South Carolina and
around the country, if the
politicians who are touting that
black
lives matter really care, there
would be health care for black
families, so they could provide
for better qualities of living.
There would be quality education
in the schools, if you
really cared about black lives.
There wouldn't be mass
incarceration if you really
cared
about black lives.
GWEN IFILL: You can watch
"America After Charleston" in
full tonight at 9:00 p.m.
Eastern on most
PBS stations. It will also be
streaming live on our home page.
You can also find all of our
coverage on the pope's visit to
the u.s there, including a
week of essays on faith and
religion. Today's contribution
is from a modern orthodox rabbi
who says the pope inspires him.
And a new study reveals doctors
are prescribing drugs that
reduce cholesterol to the
elderly
at higher rates than ever
before. The catch? There is
little research showing that
benefits
outweigh the risks of taking
these drugs. We have a report
from partners at Kaiser Health
News. All that and more is on
our Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening. For all of us
here at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.